# SDL2 Collection

A collection of the various mini-projects I've created with C++ and the SDL2 graphics library over the academic holiday period. 

## Installation

Individual programs can be compiled and run with the below terminal command, replacing {file} with the file name (excluding the extension).

```bash
make FILE={file}
```

The below command can be used to compile all of the programs, creating executables for each.

```bash
make all
```

## Programs

### Slide

This simple slide puzzle, where the aim is to arrange the cells in rainbow order from top to bottom. Players can click to select a cell (indicated by a black border) and slide this cell's row or column with the arrow or WASD keys. The board can also be randomised by pressing space.

### Conway's Game of Life

This recreation of the cellular automata 'Conway's Game of Life' allows users to manually revive cells by clicking on them. The grid can also be randomised by pressing space.

### Snek

'Snek' is a slight variation of snake which adds blue 'portal berries' that appear at increasing intervals. Rather than growing one pixel, as with a normal red berry, eating a portal berry teleports the snake through to the other portal berry, splitting it in half. Players can move the snake with the arrow or WASD keys.

### Waterfall

This program takes input from the text file 'hill.txt' within the folder, which has ASCII characters depicting a hill with water sources and simulates the produced waterfall. New water sources can be created by clicking, and backspace can be pressed to erase all water on the screen. Additionally, a new hill can be randomly generated by pressing space.

### Insertion vs 'Selection' Sort

This animation displays a step-by-step comparison of insertion vs a modified version of selection sort for a randomised array of values, represented with vertical bars. This version of selection sort knows the minimum value to select (since the sorted array has constant increments), lowering its average time complexity and allowing it to compete with insertion sort. The animation can be sped up with 'D' or the right arrow, and slowed down with 'A' or the left arrow. Moreover, the array can be shuffled with space, instantly sorted with 'W', or sorted into reverse order with 'S'.

### Lelda

'Lelda' is prototype remake of the original 'The Legend of Zelda' game on the NES, which allows players to move the character, Zink, around the map with the WASD or arrow keys, switching screens where necessary. If the player has less than full hearts, pressing space will produce a sword in front of Link, allowing him to defeat any of the red enemies in that square and potentially rewarding him a heart. When the player achieves full hearts, Link will be able to shoot projectiles that hone onto any available enemies, finding the shortest possible path with breadth-first search (BFS). The first projectile released on each screen will have its BFS visualised, stopping time to do so. As expected, players will die if they lose all of their hearts.
